As the protagonist of the story, Helena needs to be a sympathetic character with reasonably clear and understandable motives.
She needs to be vulnerable in clear ways, in spite of her wealth and her compulsion to antagonize others.

It's probably worth considering her character in the context of who her parents are.

I think the best solution is to have 2 egos present within Helena, similar to the girl from celeste.
But I don't want the main ego to be sad and pathetic like that girl. She needs to be able to hold her own reasonably well against the tenacious spirit of mischief that
is her mother's divine influence.

There are various axis we can measure each character.
-Archetype (from list of stock characters)
-MTG Colors (pick 2 out of the 5)
-D&D Alignment
-Myers Briggs
-Inspiration (some other fictional/real character who they're similar to)

Protagonist must have a good heart which makes me feel the mischief must be unintentional (accidental?) or forced up her compulsively
I think having compulsions makes sense: 
Kleptomania, Pyromania, Lying, Tresspassing, Impersonating people, Starting rumors, Vandalism, Fraud, Forgery, Sneaking, Equivocations
Concealments, Exaggerations, Understatements, Distracting people, Bribery, Blackmail

She is clearly Chaotic Good

As inspiration we can use Lyra, why not?
They're both from nobility with (at least) 1 dominating parental influence.
Both headstrong and brave but also care about people.

As for MTG colors:
Red & Black - This is the spirit of mischief, some things are done seemingly out of a malicious desire to cause harm and others actually to benefit Helena in various ways
(at the expense of anyone and everyone else, Lubric is only safe because he is an extremely capable thief and clearly platonically loves Helena, the spirit recognises this).
Red & Blue - Helena is still very authentic and acts on impulse when not under the control of the spirit, but she also has to adopt a pragmatic view of the world to manage her
condition and prevent people close to her from being harmed by it. She is organized and learned and genuinely intent on crushing this darker side of herself eventually with
enough effort and strategy.

Myers Briggs - ENFP

Her father told her that her mother ran from him once she was concieved. 
(He literally had 9 months of false memories that she put in his mind of them being together, he thought she was the love of his life.)
Even though Fallacia is the goddess of mischief, her actions aren't small. They are huge sweeping acts of destruction and misery.
It is mischief in way this misery is inflicted: by trickery, deceit, manipulation not by physical force or violence.

