I've decided that the kind of symmetric consistency I'm looking for isn't actually present within mythological stories whatsoever.
And also people don't really give a shit about picking holes in these kinds of explanations they're just like "okay they're gods.. got it"
So I shouldn't worry so much about any of this.
Aysymmetry is also kind of fun and whimsical and entertaining etc.. so.

Pretty much greek god mythology is going to be my basis.
Buuut that's only to clarfy points. In general I allow my gods to do (and be) whatever makes sense for the story.
And if there's any question about the inconsistency of that, we can blame it on the (higher up) gods.

Setting is 16th century Europe but on modified map (in map file)
Main character does have a name, you just get to play as her and have some decisions as her (still in-character decisions)
Main character is actually the Daughter of the goddess of mischief (unknown to her).

Fallacia - Goddess of trickery, mischief, deceit
Turned herself into a beautiful woman and forced (lured) the king of Cerechia to have sex with her
Gave birth to Maeandrus - dominant and assertive, but also caring and earnest
Fallacia spread word of king's infidelity to the people, who took it upon themselves to execute the king (as they're very religious) and instate a very strict ruler in his place
Fallacia then gave a nobleman visions of infidelity and left the child with him.
He became outcast from the rest of his family but was still able to look after his child with his wealth and power, naming her Helena (greek).
Helena always felt different compared to her noble and religious peers and had to constantly fight impulses and compulsions to cause havoc.
She tried to appease this feeling by becoming a robin-hood kind of thief. Her partner in crime was Lubric who felt burdened by his family's expectations and also non-religious.
Lubric is from a similarly privelidged background but has much more smugness (although not afraid to embarrass himself either) where Helena is more firery and authentic.
This robinhood-ism worked for a while but the heists became more frequent and more dangerous. They almost got caught and Lubric quit from the pressure.
The day/week later, after repressing the urges, Helena wakes to find half of her city burned down and many people dead in giant catastrophe.
Has little recollection of the event but is aware she is responsible for it and begins quest to reach the Cadian empire which word has spread have incredible technology for
analysing and healing the human mind. Feeling this is her only hope, she goes with Lubric (who has no ties to his country or family, and strong ties to Helena) they begin the
journey. She speaks with her father the night before about her plans (they have a genuinely good relationship) but since she's unable to explain that she caused the catastrophe,
he cannot understand or give his consent for her to travel (it is dangerous to do so because Cerechia people fear outside influence so travel is prohibited for most people,
except to the Pedrizian empire who are allied nations in a war against Phatemlia and Iedia).

The story in the tavern is after the entire party is killed in an encounter (Helena several hours after the rest). And are sitting in purgatory regaining their memory.
And (unknowlingly) waiting for some divine intervention to send them back the the mortal plane.

The significance of the tavern is in this context and the significance of the characters involved is also in this context since Helena doesn't remember who they are
initially.

The allience between Cerechia and the Predrizian empire was due to the newly instated king being corrupt and willing to engage with the tyranical and greedy lead of Predrizia.
Helena is 18 years old?? So the alliance has been going for 16 years or so.